Life is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got a hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it onto future generations.
The gods too are fond of a joke.
In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men the great difficulty lies in this: You must first enable the government to control the governed, and in the next place, oblige it to control itself.
Love is a fruit in season at all times, and within reach of every hand.
A good conscience is a continual Christmas.
The whole trouble is that we won't let God help us.
Laughter and tears are both responses to frustration and exhaustion. I myself prefer to laugh, since there is less cleaning up to do afterward.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
Basically my wife was immature. I'd be at home in my bath and she'd come in and sink my boats.
Democracy and socialism have nothing in common but one word, equality. But notice the difference: while democracy seeks equality in liberty, socialism seeks equality in restraint and servitude.
Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies.
Where love rules, there is no will to power; and where power predominates, there love is lacking. The one is the shadow of the other.
The last temptation is the greatest treason: to do the right deed for the wrong reason.
Government does not tax to get the money it needs; government always finds a need for the money it gets.
Love is the idler's occupation, the warrior's relaxation, and the soverign's ruination.
Feel no sadness because of evil thoughts: it only strengthens them.
We cannot do everything at once, but we can do something at once.
When the president does it that means that it is not illegal.
Death is nothing, but to live defeated and inglorious is to die daily.
Knowledge that is paid for will be longer remembered.
We cannot do everything at once, but we can do something at once.
Corrupt politicians make the other ten percent look bad.
In all chaos there is a cosmos, in all disorder a secret order.
God cannot give us a happiness and peace apart from Himself, because it is not there. There is no such thing.
God enters by a private door into every individual.
It is in man's heart that the life of nature's spectacle exists; to see it, one must feel it.
War is a game that is played with a smile. If you can't smile, grin. If you can't grin, keep out of the way 'til you can.
Of all tyrannies, a tyranny exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive. It may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies. The robber baron's cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated; but those who torment us for our own good will torment us without end, for they do so with the approval of their own conscience.
This is the true joy in life - being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one; being thoroughly worn out before you are thrown on the scrap heap; being a force of nature instead of a feverish selfish little clod of ailments and grievances.
Old age comes on suddenly, and not gradually as is thought.
It must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to manage than the creation of a new system. For the initiator has the enmity of all who profit by the preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm defenders in those who would gain by the new one.
Knowledge that is paid for will be longer remembered.
I planted some bird seed. A bird came up. Now I don't know what to feed it.
Give a man a free hand and he'll run it all over you.
The surprising thing about young fools is how many survive to become old fools.
For having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being obliged, by better information or fuller consideration, to change opinions, even on important subjects, which I once thought right but found to be otherwise.
Last night I discovered a new form of oral contraceptive. I asked a girl to go to bed with me and she said no.
I've been accused of vulgarity. I say that's bullshit.
It is always more difficult to fight against faith than against knowledge.
Reputation is what men and women think of us; character is what God and angels know of us.
We call that person who has lost his father, an orphan; and a widower that man who has lost his wife. But that man who has known the immense unhappiness of losing a friend, by what name do we call him? Here every language is silent and holds its peace in impotence.
Beauty is indeed a good gift of God; but that the good may not think it a great good, God dispenses it even to the wicked.
Puns are little plays on words that a certain breed of person loves to spring on you and then look at you in a certain self-satisfied way to indicate that he thinks that you must think that he is by far the cleverest person on Earth now that Benjamin Franklin is dead.
They defend their errors as if they were defending their inheritance.
What is a weed? A plant whose virtues have not yet been discovered.
Reason is experimental intelligence, conceived after the pattern of science, and used in the creation of social arts; it has something to do. It liberates man from the bondage of the past, due to ignorance and accident hardened into custom. It projects a better future and assists man in its realization.
A bare assertion is not necessarily the naked truth.
Every great advance in science has issued from a new audacity of the imagination.
This will never be a civilized country until we expend more money for books than we do for chewing gum.
A good conscience is a continual Christmas.
Christmas is the one time of year when people of all religions come together to worship Santa Claus.
Some people seem as if they can never have been children, and others seem as if they could never be anything else.
Prediction is very difficult, especially about the future.
I planted some bird seed. A bird came up. Now I don't know what to feed it.
I love Thanksgiving. It's the only time in Los Angeles that you see natural breasts.
Now is our chance to choose the right side. God is holding back to give us that chance. It won't last forever. We must take it or leave it.
Nonviolence is the greatest force at the disposal of mankind. It is mightier than the mightiest weapon of destruction devised by the ingenuity of man.
Get busy living, or get busy dying.
You may delay, but time will not.
Kids, just because I don't care doesn't mean I'm not listening.
Drive thy business or it will drive thee.
True friendship multiplies the good in life and divides its evils. Strive to have friends, for life without friends is like life on a desert island….to find one real friend in a lifetime is good fortune; to keep him is a blessing.
Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art... It has no survival value; rather it is one of those things that give value to survival.
Humor is mankind's greatest blessing.
If I could drop dead right now, I'd be the happiest man alive.
The conviction of the rich that the poor are happier is no more foolish than the conviction of the poor that the rich are.
There is nothing funny about Halloween. This sarcastic festival reflects, rather, an infernal demand for revenge by children on the adult world.
When I'm hungry, I eat. When I'm thirsty, I drink. When I feel like saying something, I say it.
If you're successful, acting is about as soft a job as anybody could ever wish for. But if you're unsuccessful it's worse than having a skin disease.
Drama is life with the dull bits cut out.
This does not mean that the enemy is to be allowed to escape. The object is to make him believe that there is a road to safety, and thus prevent his fighting with the courage of despair. After that, you may crush him.
I made this letter longer than usual because I lack the time to make it short.
I don't make jokes. I just watch the government and report the facts.
I can resist everything except temptation.
It ain't over till it's over.
The salvation of a single soul is more important than the production or preservation of all the epics and tragedies in the world.
In Christianity neither morality nor religion come into contact with reality at any point.
Political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind.
The trouble with fighting for human freedom is that one spends most of one's time defending scoundrels. For it is against scoundrels that oppressive laws are first aimed, and oppression must be stopped at the beginning if it is to be stopped at all.
There are painters who transform the sun to a yellow spot, but there are others who with the help of their art and their intelligence, transform a yellow spot into the sun.
If you are going to achieve excellence in big things, you develop the habit in little matters. Excellence is not an exception, it is a prevailing attitude.
Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than lies.
Without question, the greatest invention in the history of mankind is beer. Oh, I grant you that the wheel was also a fine invention, but the wheel does not go nearly as well with pizza.
Wisdom is a sacred communion.
Those who can win a war well can rarely make a good peace and those who could make a good peace would never have won the war.
Do not compute the totality of your poultry population until all the manifestations of incubation have been entirely completed.
All successful people men and women are big dreamers. They imagine what their future could be, ideal in every respect, and then they work every day toward their distant vision, that goal or purpose.
Life is anything that dies when you stomp on it.
Well enough for old folks to rise early, because they have done so many mean things all their lives they can't sleep anyhow.
I never knew what real happiness was until I got married, and by then it was too late.
As for a future life, every man must judge for himself between conflicting vague probabilities.
Humor is the only test of gravity, and gravity of humor; for a subject which will not bear raillery is suspicious, and a jest which will not bear serious examination is false wit.
Ethical religion can be real only to those who are engaged in ceaseless efforts at moral improvement. By moving upward we acquire faith in an upward movement, without limit.
In the depths of winter, I finally learned that there was in me an invincible summer.
Reasoning is never, like poetry, judged from the outside at all.
Women need a reason to have sex -- men just need a place.
If I have seen further, it is by standing on the shoulders of giants.
A tyrant is always stirring up some war or other, in order that the people may require a leader.
There is nothing more dreadful than imagination without taste.
No sane man will dance.
The only way to keep your health is to eat what you don't want, drink what you don't like, and do what you'd rather not.
I know of no safe depository of the ultimate powers of the society but the people themselves; and if we think them not enlightened enough to exercise their control with wholesome discretion, the remedy is not to take it from them, but to inform their discretion by education. This is the true corrective of abuses of constitutional power.
Lead, follow, or get out of the way.
Men are what their mothers made them.
When an American says that he loves his country, he means not only that he loves the New England hills, the prairies glistening in the sun, the wide and rising plains, the great mountains, and the sea. He means that he loves an inner air, an inner light in which freedom lives and in which a man can draw the breath of self-respect.
Better than a thousand hollow words, is one word that brings peace.
I have gathered a posie of other men’s flowers, and nothing but the thread that binds them is mine own.
Absence is to love as wind is to fire; It extinguishes the small and kindles the great.
Talking about music is like dancing about architecture.
I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinion of himself than on the opinion of others.
I arrive at the end of this review having done my duty as a critic. I have described the movie accurately and you have a good idea what you are in for if you go to see it. Most of you will not. I cannot argue with you. Some of you will--the brave and the curious. You embody the spirit of the man who first wondered what it would taste like to eat an oyster.
My son first wanted to go to Stanford, which I thought was O.K. The weather is pretty good, and it's a fairly short drive to the beach. But it wouldn't be as good as let's say, Pepperdine, which is in Malibu. And he said, 'Dad, what about the education?' I said, 'Clearly, I failed as a parent.'
We have to do more than just elect a new President if we truly want to change this country.
Love doesn't make the world go round. Love makes the ride worthwhile.
Expect people to be better than they are; it helps them to become better. But don't be disappointed when they are not; it helps them to keep trying.
It is a wretched taste to be gratified with mediocrity when the excellent lies before us.
Those who stand for nothing fall for anything.
One swallow does not make a summer.
Men are born to succeed, not fail.
There are two ways of spreading light -- to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it.
Real integrity is doing the right thing, knowing that nobody's going to know whether you did it or not.
All men are frauds. The only difference between them is that some admit it. I myself deny it.
Let him who desires peace prepare for war.
Freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.
Nobody talks so constantly about God as those who insist that there is no God.
The one thing that unites all human beings, regardless of age, gender, religion, economic status or ethnic background, is that, deep down inside, we ALL believe that we are above- average drivers.
The fragrance always stays in the hand that gives the rose.
The heights by great men reached and kept, were not obtained by sudden flight. But they, while their companions slept, were toiling upward in the night.
The Rock of Ages is more important than the age of rocks.
Don't knock the weather; nine-tenths of the people couldn't start a conversation if it didn't change once in a while.
What a man's mind can create, man's character can control.
Heav'n hath no rage like love to hatred turn'd, Nor Hell a fury, like a woman scorn'd.
Last night I was playing poker with Tarot cards. I got a full house and four people died.
Everything in the world may be endured except continued prosperity.
I believe that our Heavenly Father invented man because he was disappointed in the monkey.
We Americans have no commission from God to police the world.
Time is money.
How lucky for those in power that people don't think.
A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never remembers her age.
If you cannot get rid of the family skeleton. You may as well make it dance.
I'm very proud of my gold pocket watch. My grandfather, on his deathbed, sold me this watch.
Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut.
Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.
Think of all the beauty that's still left in and around you, and be happy.
America did not invent human rights. In a very real sense...human rights invented America.
Success is the maximum utilization of the ability that you have.
A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.
Religion is essentially the art and the theory of the remaking of man. Man is not a finished creation.
To believe is very dull. To doubt is intensely engrossing. To be on the alert is to live, to be lulled into security is to die.
When the well's dry, we know the worth of water.
Curiousity killed the cat, but for a while I was a suspect.
Writing is the only thing that, when I do it, I don't feel I should be doing something else.
I am extraordinarily patient, provided I get my own way in the end.
Education without values, as useful as it is, seems rather to make man a more clever devil.
Advertising is the life of trade.
I have been the artist with the longest career, and I am so proud and honoured to be chosen from heaven to be invincible.
I don't like to share my personal life...it wouldn't be personal if I shared it.
I hate it when my leg falls sleep in the middle of the day, because that means it'll be up all night.
The world we have created is a product of our thinking; it cannot be changed without changing our thinking.
Common-sense in an uncommon degree is what the world calls wisdom.
The permanent temptation of life is to confuse dreams with reality. The permanent defeat of life comes when dreams are surrendered to reality.
If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of freemen, we must live through all time, or die by suicide.
Anyone who says that they can contemplate quantum mechanics without becoming dizzy has not understood the concept in the least.
Where love rules, there is no will to power; and where power predominates, there love is lacking. The one is the shadow of the other.
God never gave man a thing to do concerning which it were irreverent to ponder how the Son of God would have done it.
I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth -- that God Governs the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without His aid?
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again. Then quit. No use being a damn fool about it.
Ever has it been that love knows not its own depth until the hour of separation.
Parents are not interested in justice, they're interested in peace and quiet.
When you want to fool the world, tell the truth.
Lies are essential to humanity. They are perhaps as important as the pursuit of pleasure and moreover are dictated by that pursuit.
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
I am my own experiment. I am my own work of art.
The world moves, and ideas that were good once are not always good.
There are some who've forgotten why we have a military. It's not to promote war; it's to be prepared for peace.
Every government is a scoundrel.
Iron rusts from disuse; stagnant water loses its purity and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigor of the mind.
There is something going on in time and space, and beyond time and space, which, whether we like it or not, spells duty.
I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right. But it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lords side.
A gardener who cultivates his own garden with his own hands, united in his own person the three different characters, of landlord, farmer, and labourer. His produce, therefore, should pay him the rent of the first, the profit of the second, and the wages of the third.
Some of your countrymen were unable to distinguish between their native dislike for war and the stainless patriotism of those who suffered its scars. But there has been a rethinking and now we can say to you, and say as a nation, thank you for your courage.
Some regard private enterprise as if it were a predatory tiger to be shot. Others look upon it as a cow that they can milk. Only a handful see it for what it really is--the strong horse that pulls the whole cart.
People are generally amazed that I would take an interest in any form that would require me to stop talking for three hours.
Few girls are as well shaped as a good horse.
I am a writer of books in retrospect. I talk in order to understand; I teach in order to learn.
Christmas waves a magic wand over this world, and behold, everything is softer and more beautiful.
Human beings, all over the earth, have this curious idea that they ought to behave in a certain way, and can't really get rid of it.
For having lived long, I have experienced many instances of being obliged, by better information or fuller consideration, to change opinions, even on important subjects, which I once thought right but found to be otherwise.
If everything seems under control, you're just not going fast enough.
From the moment I picked your book up until I laid it down I was convulsed with laughter. Some day I intend reading it.
I've seen the future, and it's much like the present -- only longer.
Ambition is like love, impatient both of delays and rivals.
The young man knows the rules, but the old man knows the exceptions.
Old age is fifteen years older than I am.
An event has happened, upon which it is difficult to speak, and impossible to be silent.
Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.
To you taxpayers out there, let me say this: Make sure you file your tax return on time! And remember that, even though income taxes can be a “pain in the neck,” the folks at the IRS are regular people just like you, except that they can destroy your life.
A man in love is incomplete until he has married. Then he's finished.
Happy, happy Christmas, that can win us back to the delusions of our childhood days, recall to the old man the pleasures of his youth, and transport the traveler back to his own fireside and quiet home!
If you don't risk anything, you risk even more.
A powerful idea communicates some of its strength to him who challenges it.
Religion is all bunk.
It will be found an unjust and unwise jealousy to deprive a man of his natural liberty upon the supposition he may abuse it.
As long as the world shall last there will be wrongs, and if no man objected and no man rebelled, those wrongs would last forever.
I hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand.
There is no force so democratic as the force of an ideal.
If everyone is thinking alike, someone isn't thinking.
My wife is as handsome as when she was a girl, and I...fell in love with her; and what is more, I have never fallen out.
Gandhi was inevitable. If humanity is to progress, Gandhi is inescapable. He lived, thought and acted, inspired by the vision of humanity evolving toward a world of peace and harmony. We may ignore Gandhi at our own risk.
Beauty is not caused. It is.
Nobody realizes that some people expend tremendous energy merely to be normal.
Nature thrives on patience; man on impatience.
I have friends in overalls whose friendship I would not swap for the favor of the kings of the world.
Everything has been thought of before, but the difficulty is to think of it again.
A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.
To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.
A little inaccuracy sometimes saves tons of explanation.
Art is the most passionate orgy within man's grasp.
It is the madness of folly, to expect mercy from those who have refused to do justice; and even mercy, where conquest is the object, is only a trick of war; the cunning of the fox is as murderous as the violence of the wolf.
If you don't risk anything, you risk even more.
I deplore the need or the use of troops anywhere to get American citizens to obey the orders of constituted courts.
Sex at age ninety is like trying to shoot pool with a rope.
Black holes are where God divided by zero.
The leading cause of death among fashion models is falling through street grates.
Think of all the beauty that's still left in and around you, and be happy.
I shut my eyes in order to see.
A man's drive for profit should be prompted by the desire to give charity.
A pint of sweat, saves a gallon of blood.
At times one remains faithful to a cause only because its opponents do not cease to be insipid.
The world cares very little about what a man or woman knows; it is what a man or woman is able to do that counts.
A man is but the product of his thoughts. What he thinks, he becomes.
Those whom the gods love grow young.
Democracy is when the indigent, and not the men of property, are the rulers.
When I do good, I feel good; when I do bad, I feel bad. That’s my religion.
You are what you love. Not what loves you.
No man will ever bring out of the Presidency the reputation which carries him into it. To myself, personally, it brings nothing but increasing drudgery and daily loss of friends.
Perfect humility dispenses with modesty.
The history of free men is never really written by chance but by choice -- their choice.
It is part of the American character to consider nothing as desperate - to surmount every difficulty by resolution and contrivance.
Television is the first truly democratic culture - the first culture available to everybody and entirely governed by what the people want. The most terrifying thing is what people do want.
Toleration is good for all, or it is good for none.
Love is something far more than desire for sexual intercourse; it is the principal means of escape from the loneliness which afflicts most men and women throughout the greater part of their lives.
We need not think alike to love alike.
Men's minds are raised to the level of the women with whom they associate.
The crew of the space shuttle Challenger honored us by the manner in which they lived their lives. We will never forget them, nor the last time we saw them, this morning, as they prepared for their journey and waved goodbye and 'slipped the surly bonds of earth' to 'touch the face of God.'
Give a man a free hand and he'll run it all over you.
Man is equally incapable of seeing the nothingness from which he emerges and the infinity in which he is engulfed.
When you get to be President, there are all those things, the honors, the twenty-one gun salutes, all those things. You have to remember it isn't for you. It's for the Presidency.
Every act of creation is first of all an act of destruction.
Scientists make a guess and call it a hypothesis. 'Guess' is too short a word for a professor.
Religion operates not only on the vertical plane but also on the horizontal. It seeks not only to integrate men with God but to integrate men with men and each man with himself.
If we were base enough to desire it, it is now too late to retire from the contest. There is no retreat but in submission and slavery! Our chains are forged! Their clanking may be heard on the plains of Boston! The war is inevitable; and let it come! I repeat, Sir, let it come!
The women of this nation in 1876, have greater cause for discontent, rebellion and revolution than the men of 1776.
The genius of democracies is seen not only in the great number of new words introduced but even more in the new ideas they express.
If we are to abolish the death penalty, I should like to see the first step taken by my friends the murderers.
If one is only to talk from first-hand experience, conversation would be a very poor business.
We have it in our power to begin the world over again.
And the Grinch, with his Grinch-feet ice cold in the snow, stood puzzling and puzzling, how could it be so? It came without ribbons. It came without tags. It came without packages, boxes or bags. And he puzzled and puzzled 'till his puzzler was sore. Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before. What if Christmas, he thought, doesn't come from a store? What if Christmas, perhaps, means a little bit more?
History does not long entrust the care of freedom to the weak or the timid.
Peace begins with a smile.
Serious sport has nothing to do with fair play. It is bound up with hatred, jealousy, boastfulness, disregard of all rules and sadistic pleasure in witnessing violence. In other words: it is war minus the shooting.
An actor's a guy, who if you ain't talking about him, ain't listening.
The United States stands at the pinnacle of world power. This is a solemn moment for the American democracy. For with primacy in power is joined an awe-inspiring accountability for the future.
It must be felt that there is no national security but in the nation's humble acknowledged dependence upon God and His overruling providence.
Both oligarch and tyrant mistrust the people, and therefore deprive them of their arms.
Sex without love is a meaningless experience, but as far as meaningless experiences go, it's pretty damn good.
The movies that are the easiest to make are the hardest to watch.
Dogs look up to you. Cats look down on you. Pigs treat you like equals.
Spread love everywhere you go. Let no one ever come to you without leaving happier.
The surest way of spoiling a pleasure is to start examining your satisfaction.
Men's minds are raised to the level of the women with whom they associate.
Traditions are group efforts to keep the unexpected from happening.
When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than my talent for absorbing positive knowledge.
The dream is the small hidden door in the deepest and most intimate sanctum of the soul, which opens to that primeval cosmic night that was soul long before there was conscious ego and will be soul far beyond what a conscious ego could ever reach.
The best way to cheer yourself up is to try to cheer somebody else up.
A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.
What, then, is time? If no one asks me, I know what it is. If I wish to explain it to him who asks, I do not know.
Great liars are also great magicians.
The talent of success is nothing more than doing what you can do well, and doing well whatever you do without thought of fame. If it comes at all it will come because it is deserved, not because it is sought after.
You got to be very careful if you don't know where you're going, because you might not get there.
How did it happen that their lips came together? How does it happen that birds sing, that snow melts, that the rose unfolds, that the dawn whitens behind the stark shapes of trees on the quivering summit of the hill? A kiss, and all was said.
Nobody can have the consolations of religion or philosophy unless he has first experienced their desolations.
I guess I don't so much mind being old, as I mind being fat and old.
Even peace may be purchased at too high a price.
Many a man's reputation would not know his character if they met on the street.
Leadership is solving problems. The day soldiers stop bringing you their problems is the day you have stopped leading them. They have either lost confidence that you can help or concluded you do not care. Either case is a failure of leadership.
Karate is a form of marital arts in which people who have had years and years of training can, using only their hands and feet, make some of the worst movies in the history of the world.
Kids like my act because I'm wearing nose glasses. Adults like my act because there's a guy who thinks putting on nose glasses is funny.
Good judgment comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgment.
I'm not afraid of death, I just don't want to be there when it happens.
The art of acting consists in keeping people from coughing.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, half shut afterwards.
Males have a lot of trouble not looking at breasts. What is worse, males cannot look at breasts and think at the same time. In fact, scientists now believe that the primary biological function of breasts is to make males stupid. This was proved in a famous 1978 laboratory experiment wherein a team of leading male psychological researchers at Yale deliberately looked at photographs of breasts every day for two years, at the end of which they concluded that they had failed to take any notes. 'We forgot,' they said. 'We'll have to do it over.'
A word to the wise is infuriating.
A bad peace is even worse than war.
A great deal of intelligence can be invested in ignorance when the need for illusion is deep.
I've worked for four presidents and watched two others up close, and I know that there's no such thing as a routine day in the Oval Office.
Only those are fit to live who are not afraid to die.
The degree of civilization in a society can be judged by entering its prisons.
The practice of art isn't to make a living. It's to make your soul grow.
Last night I was playing poker with Tarot cards. I got a full house and four people died.
My Grandmother is over eighty and still doesn't need glasses. Drinks right out of the bottle.
If you're given a choice between money and sex appeal, take the money. As you get older, the money will become your sex appeal.
Before reciting his prayers, a man should give to charity.
If you read history you will find that the Christians who did most for the present world were precisely those who thought most of the next. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this.
Americans learn only from catastrophe and not from experience.
Associate yourself with men of good quality if you esteem your own reputation; for 'tis better to be alone than in bad company.
We need an America with the wisdom of experience. But we must not let America grow old in spirit.
What do I know about sex? I'm a married man.
Ability is nothing without opportunity.
Any man who afflicts the human race with ideas must be prepared to see them misunderstood.
As a woman, I find it very embarrassing to be in a meeting and realize I'm the only one in the room with balls.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
Nothing so dates a man as to decry the younger generation.
The history of liberty is a history of limitation of government power, not the increase of it.
Such men as he be never at heart's ease whiles they behold a greater than themselves, and therefore are they very dangerous.
Time is a great teacher, but unfortunately it kills all its pupils.
You owe it to yourself to be the best you can possibly be - in baseball and in life.
The price of freedom is eternal vigilance.
I never see what has been done; I only see what remains to be done.
A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.
Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our gigantic intellects.
I can live with death.
America is the first country to have gone from barbarism to decadence without the usual intervening period of civilization.
Ethical religion can be real only to those who are engaged in ceaseless efforts at moral improvement. By moving upward we acquire faith in an upward movement, without limit.
An unexciting truth may be eclipsed by a thrilling lie.
What is bad? Everything that is born of weakness.
I figure wherever I am, that's the place to be.
If there's anything unsettling to the stomach, it's watching actors on television talk about their personal lives.
Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to alter it every six months.
Golf is a good walk spoiled.
Men create gods after their own image, not only with regard to their form but with regard to their mode of life.
Freedom and fear, justice and cruelty, have always been at war, and we know that God is not neutral between them.
If I've made it a little easier for artists to work in violence, great! I've accomplished something.
A President either is constantly on top of events or, if he hesitates, events will soon be on top of him. I never felt that I could let up for a single moment.
We know life is futile. A man who considers that his life is of very wonderful importance is awfully close to a padded cell.
Haven't you learned anything from that guy that gives those sermons in church? Captain What's-his-name. We live in a society of laws, why do you think I took you to see all those Police Academy movies? For fun? Well I didn't hear anybody laughing! Did you? Except at that guy who made sound effects. Vroom! Beep! Honk! Honk! Ha-ha. Where was I? Oh yeah, stay out of my booze!
The best thinking has been done in solitude. The worst has been done in turmoil.
What do you know and how do you know it?
Love, while always forgiving of imperfections and mistakes, can never cease to will their removal.
Courage is the most beautiful kind of madness.
Strength of mind is exercise, not rest.
Perhaps one of the most important accomplishments of my administration has been minding my own business.
The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining.
There is hope for the future because God has a sense of humor and we are funny to God.
The old believe everything, the middle-aged suspect everything, the young know everything.
Success, the real success, does not depend upon the position you hold but upon how you carry yourself in that position.
Happiness is a Swedish sunset; it is there for all, but most of us look the other way and lose it.
Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn't go away.
Most truths are so naked that people feel sorry for them and cover them up, at least a little bit.
The price of greatness is responsibility.
Parting is all we know of heaven and all we need to know of hell.
There are those who hate Christianity and call their hatred an all-embracing love for all religions.
The highest form of ignorance is when you reject something you don't know anything about.
Everyone is in awe of the lion tamer in a cage with half a dozen lions -- everyone but a school bus driver.
How else can you fight God but to pretend He doesn't exist?
A hat should be taken off when you greet a lady and left off for the rest of your life. Nothing looks more stupid than a hat.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
Enjoy when you can, and endure when you must.
It is best to rise from life as from a banquet, neither thirsty nor drunken.
Philosophy is questions that may never be answered. Religion is answers that may never be questioned.
I planted some bird seed. A bird came up. Now I don't know what to feed it.
Mankind are governed more by their feelings than by reason.
The only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing.
I think that a hat which has a little cannon that fires and then goes back inside the hat is at least a decade away.
Fear is pain arising from the anticipation of evil.
Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into friend.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty. That is all ye know on Earth, and all ye need to know.
Slump? I ain't in no slump... I just ain't hitting.
I will honor Christmas in my heart, and try to keep it all the year.
We must use time as a tool, not as a crutch.
The <i>Declaration of Independence</i> dogmatically bases all rights on the fact that God created all men equal; and it is right; for if they were not created equal, they were certainly evolved unequal. There is no basis for democracy except in a dogma about the divine origin of man.
Only cowards insult dying majesty.
War is an art and as such is not susceptible of explanation by fixed formula.
This world is a comedy to those that think; a tragedy to those that feel.
Humility is the foundation of all the other virtues hence, in the soul in which this virtue does not exist there cannot be any other virtue except in mere appearance.
I'll always perform, because show business is in my blood. Or maybe it's in my feet. Wherever it is, I don't think I'll ever stop.
The public is wonderfully tolerant. It forgives everything except genius.
I do not know what I may appear to the world; but to myself I seem to have been only like a boy playing on the seashore, and diverting myself in now and then finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me.
Most of us have far more courage than we ever dreamed we possessed.
To laugh with others is one of life's great pleasures. To be laughed at by others is one of life's great hurts.
It is a good idea to 'shop around' before you settle on a doctor. Ask about the condition of his Mercedes. Ask about the competence of his mechanic. Don't be shy! After all, you're paying for it.
It must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to manage than the creation of a new system. For the initiator has the enmity of all who profit by the preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm defenders in those who would gain by the new one.
No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear. I am not afraid, but the sensation is like being afraid. The same fluttering in the stomach, the same restlessness, the yawning. I keep on swallowing.
Gaze long into the abyss, and the abyss gazes into you.
If you cannot inspire a woman with love of you, fill her above the brim with love of herself; all that runs over will be yours.
I don't think there's anything to be afraid of. Failure brings great rewards -- in the life of an artist.
Chastity...the most unnatural of all the sexual perversions.
The heart has its reasons, of which the mind knows nothing.
We're actors--we're the opposite of people.
I cannot conceive otherwise than that He, the Infinite Father, expects or requires no worship or praise from us, but that He is even infinitely above it.
My political ambitions have nothing to do with vanity or the desire for power. I want to help people. I owe them something after all they've done for me.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep.
Great is the guilt of an unnecessary war.
Among the many misdeeds of the British rule in India, history will look upon the act depriving a whole nation of arms as the blackest.
A man is measured by the size of things that anger him.
Money can help you to get medicines but not health. Money can help you to get soft pillows, but not sound sleep. Money can help you to get material comforts, but not eternal bliss. Money can help you to get ornaments, but not beauty. Money will help you to get an electric earphone, but not natural hearing. Attain the supreme wealth, wisdom, and you will have everything.
I continue to find my greatest pleasure, and so my reward, in the work that precedes what the world calls success.
The opposite of talking isn't listening. The opposite of talking is waiting.
Why has government been instituted at all? Because the passions of men will not conform to the dictates of reason and justice, without constraint.
What you do speaks so loudly that I cannot hear what you say.
Wise men argue causes, and fools decide them.
A man's kiss is his signature.
It was the experience of mystery -- even if mixed with fear -- that engendered religion.
It is better to be bold than too circumspect, because fortune is of a sex which likes not a tardy wooer and repulses all who are not ardent.
Waiting for the fish to bite or waiting for wind to fly a kite. Or waiting around for Friday night or waiting perhaps for their Uncle Jake or a pot to boil or a better break or a string of pearls or a pair of pants or a wig with curls or another chance. Everyone is just waiting.
A nation or civilization that continues to produce soft-minded men purchases its own spiritual death on the installment plan.
I always cheer up immensely if an attack is particularly wounding because I think, well, if they attack one personally, it means they have not a single political argument left.
Ladies of Fashion starve their happiness to feed their vanity, and their love to feed their pride.
We have to do more than just elect a new President if we truly want to change this country.
We build too many walls and not enough bridges.
He that lives upon hope will die fasting.
More than any time in history mankind faces a crossroads. One path leads to despair and utter hopelessness, the other to total extinction. Let us pray that we have the wisdom to choose correctly.
As Mankind becomes more liberal, they will be more apt to allow that all those who conduct themselves as worthy members of the community are equally entitled to the protections of civil government. I hope ever to see America among the foremost nations of justice and liberality.
A woman never forgets the men she could have had; a man, the women he couldn't.
If you will not fight for the right when you can easily win without bloodshed; if you will not fight when your victory will be sure and not too costly; you may come to the moment when you will have to fight with all the odds against you and only a small chance of survival. There may even be a worse case: you may have to fight when there is no hope of victory, because it is better to perish than to live as slaves.
An artist is someone who produces things that people don't need to have but that he— for some reason— thinks it would be a good idea to give them.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?
I believe we are born with our minds open to wonderful experiences, and only slowly learn to limit ourselves to narrow tastes. We are taught to lose our curiosity by the bludgeon-blows of mass marketing, which brainwash us to see 'hits,' and discourage exploration.
To forbid the making of pictures about God would be to forbid thinking about God at all, for man is so made that he has no way to think except in pictures.
Atheism turns out to be too simple. If the whole universe has no meaning, we should never have found out that it has no meaning...
If I am anything, which I highly doubt, I have made myself so by hard work.
The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes but in having new eyes.
If you can't sleep, then get up and do something instead of lying there worrying. It's the worry that gets you, not the lack of sleep.
When I am abroad, I always make it a rule never to criticize or attack the government of my own country. I make up for lost time when I come home.
Time passes, and little by little everything that we have spoken in falsehood becomes true.
What a man believes upon grossly insufficient evidence is an index into his desires -- desires of which he himself is often unconscious. If a man is offered a fact which goes against his instincts, he will scrutinize it closely, and unless the evidence is overwhelming, he will refuse to believe it. If, on the other hand, he is offered something which affords a reason for acting in accordance to his instincts, he will accept it even on the slightest evidence. The origin of myths is explained in this way.
Waiting for the fish to bite or waiting for wind to fly a kite. Or waiting around for Friday night or waiting perhaps for their Uncle Jake or a pot to boil or a better break or a string of pearls or a pair of pants or a wig with curls or another chance. Everyone is just waiting.
The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
No great discovery was ever made without a bold guess.
Failure is the only opportunity to begin again more intelligently.
Progress comes from the intelligent use of experience.
Politics has got so expensive that it takes lots of money to even get beat with.
I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen, not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else.
Dying is a very dull, dreary affair. And my advice to you is to have nothing whatever to do with it.
Friends, if we be honest with ourselves, we shall be honest with each other.
I know that the Lord is always on the side of the right. But it is my constant anxiety and prayer that I and this nation should be on the Lords side.
The whole purpose of a husband and wife is that when hard times knock at the door you should be able to embrace each other.
Women are nothing but machines for producing children.
TV is chewing gum for the eyes.
The laws of gravity cannot be held responsible for people falling in love.
You can have everything in life that you want if you just give enough other people what they want.
The only good thing about books is that they can be adapted into films.
I think luck is the sense to recognize an opportunity and the ability to take advantage of it... The man who can smile at his breaks and grab his chances gets on.
Sex at age ninety is like trying to shoot pool with a rope.
Art calls for complete mastery of techniques, developed by reflection within the soul.
Every individual...generally, indeed, neither intends to promote the public interest, nor knows how much he is promoting it. By preferring the support of domestic to that of foreign industry he intends only his own security; and by directing that industry in such a manner as its produce may be of the greatest value, he intends only his own gain, and he is in this, as in many other cases, led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of his intention.
Every man is like the company he is wont to keep.
First love is only a little foolishness and a lot of curiosity.
I do not like work even when someone else does it.
Anything that is too stupid to be spoken is sung.
Example is the school of mankind, and they will learn at no other.
We have to do more than just elect a new President if we truly want to change this country.
Puns are little plays on words that a certain breed of person loves to spring on you and then look at you in a certain self-satisfied way to indicate that he thinks that you must think that he is by far the cleverest person on Earth now that Benjamin Franklin is dead.
My friends are my estate.
If you were to open up a baby's head -- and I am not for a moment suggesting that you should -- you would find nothing but an enormous drool gland.
America is a country that doesn't know where it is going but is determined to set a speed record getting there.
For the wise men of old the cardinal problem had been how to conform the soul to reality. For magic and applied science alike the problem is how to subdue reality to the wishes of men.
First they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they fight you, then you win.
When angry count to four; when very angry, swear.
The degree of one's emotions varies inversely with one's knowledge of the facts: the less you know the hotter you get.
You shall be free indeed when your days are not without care nor your nights without a want and a grief,
Cherish all your happy moments: they make a fine cushion for old age.
Everything that we see is a shadow cast by that which we do not see.
Where there is a lack of honor in government, the morals of the whole people are poisoned.
There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.
I do not think that the real reason why people accept religion is anything to do with argumentation. They accept religion on emotional grounds. One is often told that it is a very wrong thing to attack religion, because religion makes men virtuous. So I am told; I have not noticed it.
It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.
Children seldom misquote you. In fact, they usually repeat word for word what you shouldn't have said.
The most ridiculous concept ever perpetrated by Homo Sapiens is that the Lord God of Creation, Shaper and Ruler of the Universes, wants the sacharrine adoration of his creations, that he can be persuaded by their prayers, and becomes petulant if he does not recieve this flattery. Yet this ridiculous notion, without one real shred of evidence to bolster it, has gone on to found one of the oldest, largest and least productive industries in history.
I think your whole life shows in your face and you should be proud of that.
I think that everyone should get married at least once, so you can see what a silly, outdated institution it is.
What's another word for thesaurus?
There is nothing more tragic than to find an individual bogged down in the length of life, devoid of breadth.
We must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success.
Art can teach without at all ceasing to be art.
He can compress the most words into the smallest idea of any man I know.
When you sell a man a book you don't sell him just 12 ounces of paper and ink and glue - you sell him a whole new life.
Nothing is more obstinate than a fashionable consensus.
I believe that sex is one of the most beautiful, natural, wholesome things that money can buy.
If he's so smart, how come he's dead?
A man in love is incomplete until he has married. Then he's finished.
I detest racialism, because I regard it as a barbaric thing, whether it comes from a black man or a white man.
The best way to keep one's word is not to give it.
Courage is fear holding on a minute longer.
It must be remembered that there is nothing more difficult to plan, more doubtful of success nor more dangerous to manage than the creation of a new system. For the initiator has the enmity of all who profit by the preservation of the old institution and merely lukewarm defenders in those who would gain by the new one.
Every author should weigh his work and ask, 'Will humanity gain any benefit from it?'
War with evil; but show no spirit of malignity toward the man who may be responsible for the evil. Put it out of his power to do wrong.
Cliches are made because they're true.
As a rule, men worry more about what they can't see than about what they can.
No doubt those who really founded modern science were usually those whose love of truth exceeded their love of power.
Anger is an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.
Haven't you learned anything from that guy that gives those sermons in church? Captain What's-his-name. We live in a society of laws, why do you think I took you to see all those Police Academy movies? For fun? Well I didn't hear anybody laughing! Did you? Except at that guy who made sound effects. Vroom! Beep! Honk! Honk! Ha-ha. Where was I? Oh yeah, stay out of my booze!
I want to be the white man's brother, not his brother-in-law.
The Negro needs the white man to free him from his fears. The white man needs the Negro to free him from his guilt.
If variety is the spice of life, marriage is the big can of leftover Spam.
My goal is to someday be the person my dog thinks I am.
Ability is nothing without opportunity.
Carry the battle to them. Don't let them bring it to you. Put them on the defensive. And don't ever apologize for anything.
It is inevitable that some defeat will enter even the most victorious life. The human spirit is never finished when it is defeated...it is finished when it surrenders.
It is better to be bold than too circumspect, because fortune is of a sex which likes not a tardy wooer and repulses all who are not ardent.
Man will ultimately be governed by God or by tyrants.
I have a microwave fireplace. I can lay down in front of the fire for the evening in eight minutes.
In the life of a man, his time is but a moment...his sense, a dim rushlight. All that is body is as coursing waters...all that is of the soul, as dreams, and vapors.
Religion is what keeps the poor from murdering the rich.
I have accepted fear as a part of life - specifically the fear of change. I have gone ahead despite the pounding in the heart that says: turn back.
Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into friend.
One ought, each day at least, to hear a little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture and, if possible, speak a few reasonable words.
Of all the varieties of virtues, liberalism is the most beloved.
Inside of a ring or out, ain't nothing wrong with going down. It's staying down that's wrong.
Politics is perhaps the only profession for which no preparation is thought necessary.
A man can't be too careful in the choice of his enemies.
Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away.
You and I are told we must choose between a left or right, but I suggest there is no such thing as a left or right. There is only an up or down. Up to man's age-old dream -- the maximum of individual freedom consistent with order -- or down to the ant heap of totalitarianism.
Inside of a ring or out, ain't nothing wrong with going down. It's staying down that's wrong.
How did it happen that their lips came together? How does it happen that birds sing, that snow melts, that the rose unfolds, that the dawn whitens behind the stark shapes of trees on the quivering summit of the hill? A kiss, and all was said.
Baseball is 90% mental, the other half is physical.
Contentment is natural wealth, luxury is artificial poverty.
If you look for truth, you may find comfort in the end; if you look for comfort you will not get either comfort or truth only soft soap and wishful thinking to begin, and in the end, despair.
Sex alleviates tension. Love causes it.
If there is a soul, it is a mistake to believe that it is given tous fully created. It is created here, throughout a whole life. And living is nothing else but that long and painful bringing forth.
Illness is the doctor to whom we pay most heed; to kindness, to knowledge, we make promise only; pain we obey.
Get happiness out of your work or you may never know what happiness is.
As long as the world shall last there will be wrongs, and if no man objected and no man rebelled, those wrongs would last forever.
I guess I don't so much mind being old, as I mind being fat and old.
He that cannot obey, cannot command.
The Negro needs the white man to free him from his fears. The white man needs the Negro to free him from his guilt.
How else can you fight God but to pretend He doesn't exist?
It may be hard for an egg to turn into a bird: it would be a jolly sight harder for it to learn to fly while remaining an egg. We are like eggs at present. And you cannot go on indefinitely being just an ordinary, decent egg. We must be hatched or go bad.
That is the consolation of a little mind; you have the fun of changing it without impeding the progress of mankind.
Cowards die many times before their deaths. The valiant never taste of death but once.
Hosting the Oscars is like making love to a beautiful woman - it's something I only get to do when Billy Crystal's out of town.
The object of teaching a child is to enable him to get along without a teacher.
It is those who know little, and not those who know much, who so positively assert that this or that problem will never be solved by science.
Music is the art which is most nigh to tears and memory.
Glory is fleeting, but obscurity is forever.
No good film is too long and no bad film is short enough.
A successful marriage requires falling in love many times, always with the same person.
The Supreme Court has ruled that they cannot have a nativity scene in Washington, D.C. This wasn't for any religious reasons. They couldn't find three wise men and a virgin.
Learning carries within itself certain dangers because out of necessity one has to learn from one's enemies.
Giving back involves a certain amount of giving up.
Men speak of natural rights, but I challenge any one to show where in nature any rights existed or were recognized until there was established for their declaration and protection a duly promulgated body of corresponding laws.
If I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world.
Because of the level of my chess game, I was able - even against a weak opponent, such as my younger brothers or the dog - to get myself checkmated in under three minutes. I challenge any computer to do it faster.
There is a tragic flaw in our precious Constitution, and I don’t know what can be done to fix it. This is it: Only nut cases want to be president.
If I were two-faced, would I be wearing this one?
All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others.
It is a well-documented fact that guys will not ask for directions. This is a biological thing. This is why it takes several million guy sperm cells, each one wriggling in its own direction, totally confident it knows where it is going, to locate a female egg, despite the fact that the egg is, relative to them, the size of Wisconsin.
A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.
Nietzsche was stupid and abnormal.
We don't receive wisdom; we must discover it for ourselves after a journey that no one can take for us or spare us.
Outside of a dog, a book is a man's best friend. Inside of a dog, it is too dark to read.
Do not dwell in the past, do not dream of the future, concentrate the mind on the present moment.
People sometimes ask if I have tried to convince black 'leaders' to take a different view on racial issues. Of course not. I wouldn't spend my time trying to persuade the mafia to give up crime. Why should I spend time trying to convince race hustlers to give up victimhood? It's their bread and butter.
The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be felt with the heart.
The absence of alternatives clears the mind marvelously.
I don't make jokes. I just watch the government and report the facts.
Any man who afflicts the human race with ideas must be prepared to see them misunderstood.
If you are going through hell, keep going.
I don't believe in quotas. America was founded on a philosophy of individual rights, not group rights.
We cannot do everything at once, but we can do something at once.
It is a poverty to decide that a child must die so that you may live as you wish.
I shall tell you a great secret my friend. Do not wait for the last judgement, it takes place every day.
If you would be known, and not know, vegetate in a village; If you would know, and not be known, live in a city.
Nobody goes there anymore; it's too crowded.
Fear not those who argue but those who dodge.
The higher your structure is to be, the deeper must be its foundation.
Most human beings have an almost infinite capacity for taking things for granted.
The only thing money gives you is the freedom of not worrying about money.
Whenever someone asks me to define love, I usually think for a minute, then I spin around and pin the guy's arm behind his back. NOW who's asking the questions?
Nobody realizes that some people expend tremendous energy merely to be normal.
A word to the wise is infuriating.
No man, who continues to add something to the material, intellectual and moral well-being of the place in which he lives, is left long without proper reward.
Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment.
There is no glory in battle worth the blood it costs.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
What I look forward to is continued immaturity followed by death.
If women are expected to do the same work as men, we must teach them the same things.
The longer I am out of office, the more infallible I appear to myself.
The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain, egotistic and self-complacent is erroneous; on the contrary it makes them, for the most part, humble, tolerant and kind.
A loving heart is the truest wisdom.
The president cannot escape from his office.
The whole trouble is that we won't let God help us.
Always remember, others may hate you- but those who hate you don't win unless you hate them, and then you destroy yourself.
Sex is a three-letter word which needs some old-fashioned four-letter words to convey its full meaning.
Peace is not merely a distant goal that we seek, but a means by which we arrive at that goal.
Experts often possess more data than judgment.
I arrive at the end of this review having done my duty as a critic. I have described the movie accurately and you have a good idea what you are in for if you go to see it. Most of you will not. I cannot argue with you. Some of you will--the brave and the curious. You embody the spirit of the man who first wondered what it would taste like to eat an oyster.
The best way to keep one's word is not to give it.
Let him that would move the world first move himself.
When we ask for advice, we are usually looking for an accomplice.
Humanity is acquiring all the right technology for all the wrong reasons.
Nobody expects to trust his body overmuch after the age of fifty.
Divide and rule, a sound motto. Unite and lead, a better one.
The poet is in command of his fantasy, while it is exactly the mark of the neurotic that he is possessed by his fantasy.
An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.
Without the aid of trained emotions the intellect is powerless against the animal organism.
Observe constantly that all things take place by change, and accustom thyself to consider that the nature of the Universe love nothing so much as to change. The Universe is change.
If a man does his best, what else is there?
Never open the door to a lesser evil, for other and greater ones invariably slink in after it.
The salvation of a single soul is more important than the production or preservation of all the epics and tragedies in the world.
It is not the critic who counts: not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles or where the doer of deeds could have done better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs and comes up short again and again, because there is no effort without error or shortcoming, but who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions, who spends himself for a worthy cause; who, at the best, knows, in the end, the triumph of high achievement, and who, at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who knew neither victory nor defeat.
When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall - think of it, <b>always</b>.
Truly wonderful, the mind of a child is.
Football is like life, it requires perseverance, self-denial, hard work sacrifice, dedication and respect for authority.
Any man who afflicts the human race with ideas must be prepared to see them misunderstood.
To be wise and love exceeds man's might.
There can be no deep disappointment where there is not deep love.
Talk to me about the truth of religion and I'll listen gladly. Talk to me about the duty of religion and I'll listen submissively. But don't come talking to me about the consolations of religion or I shall suspect that you don't understand.
You don't have a Soul. You are a Soul. You have a body.
I don't want to achieve immortality through my work; I want to achieve immortality through not dying.
The great principle which this house ought to guard and cherish is that, when the tax collector comes to the private citizen and takes from him of his wealth for the services of the public, the whole of that money taken shall go for the purposes for which it is intended, and that no private interests, however powerfully they may be organized and however eloquently advocated, shall thrust their dirty fingers into the pie and take the profits for themselves.
But what is the difference between literature and journalism? Journalism is unreadable and literature is not read. That is all.
Were it possible for us to wait for ourselves to come into the room, not many of us would find our hearts breaking into flower as we heard the door handle turn.
There is one thing I would break up over, and that is if she caught me with another woman. I won't stand for that.
It's not how much we give but how much love we put into giving.
Alexandre Dumas
Let individuals contribute as they desire; but let us prohibit in effective fashion all corporations from making contributions for any political purpose, directly or indirectly.
Life is a pill which none of us can bear to swallow without gilding.
How I wish that somewhere there existed an island for those who are wise and of goodwill! In such a place even I would be an ardent patriot.
There are three ingredients in the good life: learning, earning and yearning.
We're actors--we're the opposite of people.
Any reviewer who expresses rage and loathing for a novel is preposterous. He or she is like a person who has put on full armor and attacked a hot fudge sundae.
She was what we used to call a suicide blond - dyed by her own hand.
Thinking is more precious than all five senses.
Christmas is a time when you get homesick, even when you're home.
Thus the metric system did not really catch on in the States, unless you count the increasing popularity of the nine-millimeter bullet.
We contend that for a nation to try to tax itself into prosperity is like a man standing in a bucket and trying to lift himself up by the handle.
Learning carries within itself certain dangers because out of necessity one has to learn from one's enemies.
A free society is one where it is safe to be unpopular.
The difference between genius and stupidity is that genius has its limits.
I do not consider it an insult, but rather a compliment to be called an agnostic. I do not pretend to know where many ignorant men are sure -- that is all that agnosticism means.
If you want to get laid, go to college, but if you want an education, go to the library.
The Americans combine the notions of Christianity and of liberty so intimately in their minds, that it is impossible to make them conceive the one without the other.
What you have lost will not be returned to you. It will always be lost. You're left with only your scars to mark the void. All you can choose to do is go on or not. But if you go on, it's knowing you carry your scars with you.
Baseball is 90% mental, the other half is physical.
Airplane travel is nature's way of making you look like your passport photo.
A successful marriage is an edifice that must be rebuilt every day.
The reason why worry kills more people than work is that more people worry than work.
If you want to get laid, go to college, but if you want an education, go to the library.
It is the march of freedom and democracy which will leave Marxism- Leninism on the ash heap of history as it has left other tyrannies which stifle the freedom and muzzle the self-expression of the people.
Genius is one per cent inspiration, ninety-nine per cent perspiration.
Faith is not only in the heart; it should be put into words.
A proud man is always looking down on things and people; and, of course, as long as you're looking down, you can't see something that's above you.
An optimist is a person who starts a new diet on Thanksgiving Day.
We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.
There is a tragic flaw in our precious Constitution, and I don’t know what can be done to fix it. This is it: Only nut cases want to be president.
It has been said that man is a rational animal. All my life I have been searching for evidence which could support this.
The beginning is the most important part of the work.
My son first wanted to go to Stanford, which I thought was O.K. The weather is pretty good, and it's a fairly short drive to the beach. But it wouldn't be as good as let's say, Pepperdine, which is in Malibu. And he said, 'Dad, what about the education?' I said, 'Clearly, I failed as a parent.'
With the sleep of dreams comes nightmares.
I don't know how old I am because the goat ate the Bible that had my birth certificate in it. The goat lived to be twenty-seven.
Myths and creeds are heroic struggles to comprehend the truth in the world.
Experience has taught me that there is one chief reason why some people succeed and others fail. The difference is not one of knowing, but of doing. The successful man is not so superior in ability as in action. So far as success can be reduced to a formula, it consists of this: doing what you know you should do.
I would rather be a failure doing something I love than be a sucess doing something I hate.
What IS your fascination with my forbidden closet of mysteries?
If God didn't want us to eat animals, why did he make them out of meat?
Every generation laughs at the old fashions, but follows religiously the new.
And what’s romance? Usually, a nice little tale where you have everything As You Like It, where rain never wets your jacket and gnats never bite your nose and it’s always daisy-time.
The first thing I do in the morning is brush my teeth and sharpen my tongue.
Success is a lousy teacher. It seduces smart people into thinking they can't lose.
Dignity does not consist in possessing honors, but in deserving them.
The biggest bore is the person who is bored by everyone and everything.
So you think that money is the root of all evil. Have you ever asked what is the root of all money?
The first rule of any technology used in a business is that automation applied to an efficient operation will magnify the efficiency. The second is that automation applied to an inefficient operation will magnify the inefficiency.
I think 'no comment' is a splendid expression. I am using it again and again.
My most brilliant achievement was my ability to be able to persuade my wife to marry me.
The power of accurate observation is commonly called cynicism by those who have not got it.
You can only find truth with logic if you have already found truth without it.
Government, even in its best state, is but a necessary evil; in its worst state, an intolerable one.
There are very few monsters who warrant the fear we have of them.
When one jumps over the edge, one is bound to land somewhere.
Patriotism is easy to understand in America. It means looking out for yourself by looking out for your country.
No man, who continues to add something to the material, intellectual and moral well-being of the place in which he lives, is left long without proper reward.
I don't know how old I am because the goat ate the Bible that had my birth certificate in it. The goat lived to be twenty-seven.
Have no fear of robbers or murderers. They are external dangers, petty dangers. We should fear ourselves. Prejudices are the real robbers; vices the real murders. The great dangers are within us. Why worry about what threatens our heads or purses? Let us think instead of what threatens our souls.
Your faith is what you believe, not what you know.
In the End, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.
Camping is nature's way of promoting the motel business.
All our knowledge has its origin in our perceptions.
Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies.
I perceived that to express those impressions, to write that essential book, which is the only true one, a great writer does not, in the current meaning of the word, invent it, but, since it exists already in each one of us, interprets it. The duty and the task of a writer are those of an interpreter.
Don't measure yourself by what you have accomplished, but by what you should have accomplished with your ability.
Heavy hearts, like heavy clouds in the sky, are best relieved by the letting of a little water.
Never despair, but if you do, work on in despair.
It is largely because the free-thinkers, as a school, have hardly made up their minds whether they want to be more optimist or more pessimist than Christianity that their small but sincere movement has failed. For the duel is deadly; and any agnostic who wishes to be anything more than a Nihilist must sympathize with one version of nature or the other.
I confess, I do not believe in time.
My wife is as handsome as when she was a girl, and I...fell in love with her; and what is more, I have never fallen out.
The meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances: if there is any reaction, both are transformed.
There are lots of people who mistake their imagination for their memory.
If we work upon marble, it will perish; if we work upon brass, time will efface it; if we rear temples, they will crumble into dust; but if we work upon immortal minds and instill into them just principles, we are then engraving that upon tablets which no time will efface, but will brighten and brighten to all eternity.
If you have a job without aggravation, you don't have a job.
Money doesn't talk, it swears.
I hate rap music, which to me sounds like a bunch of angry men shouting, possibly because the person who was supposed to provide them with a melody never showed up.
Movies are my religion and God is my patron. I'm lucky enough to be in the position where I don't make movies to pay for my pool. When I make a movie, I want it to be everything to me; like I would die for it.
Don't hit at all if it is honorably possible to avoid hitting; but never hit soft!
Real freedom is having nothing. I was freer when I didn't have a cent.
That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind.
Money can't buy love, but it improves your bargaining position.
When the well's dry, we know the worth of water.
My success just evolved from working hard at the business at hand each day.
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power.
Most of us have far more courage than we ever dreamed we possessed.
A man of genius has been seldom ruined but by himself.
From the moment I picked your book up until I laid it down I was convulsed with laughter. Some day I intend reading it.
Home is where you come when you run out of places.
Some of the world's greatest feats were accomplished by people not smart enough to know they were impossible.
Who can endure a doctrine which would allow only dentists to say whether our teeth were aching, only cobblers to say whether our shoes hurt us, and only governments to tell us whether we were being well governed?
America...just a nation of two hundred million used car salesmen with all the money we need to buy guns and no qualms about killing anybody else in the world who tries to make us uncomfortable.
Time makes more converts than reason.
A man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing.
Every girl should use what Mother Nature gave her before Father Time takes it away.
If one could conclude as to the nature of the Creator from a study of his creation it would appear that God has a special fondness for stars and beetles.
Real loss is only possible when you love something more than you love yourself.
Life is but a brief moment. The years go by quickly and old age arrives suddenly before we have an inkling. People desire so many things and waste their days in vain. Some yearn for gold, others for power, yet others for glory and a higher station. But when death's moment nears and they look back at their lives they've lived, they realise they've been happy only during those moments when they've loved.
To be absolutely certain about something, one must know everything or nothing about it.
If you're afraid to ask the question, it's probably because you already know the answer.
War does not determine who is right - only who is left.
You can get help from teachers, but you are going to have to learn a lot by yourself, sitting alone in a room.
She is not perfect. You are not perfect. The question is whether or not you are perfect for each other.
Errors are inevitable. The mark of character is not refusing to recognize them, but acknowledging them and taking responsibility.
Calm, lasting beauty comes only in a dream, and this solace the world had thrown away when in its worship of the real it threw away the secrets of childhood and innocence.
A reasonable man adapts himself to his environment. An unreasonable man persists in attempting to adapt his environment to suit himself. Therefore, all progress depends on the unreasonable man.
I've noticed that everybody that is for abortion has already been born.
The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future life.
Rings and jewels are not gifts but apologies for gifts. The only true gift is a portion of yourself.
If there are no stupid questions, then what kind of questions do stupid people ask? Do they get smart just in time to ask questions.
The only difference between the saint and the sinner is that every saint has a past, and every sinner has a future.
Many who seem to be struggling with adversity are happy; many, amid great affluence, are utterly miserable.
Quote me as saying I was mis-quoted.
We build too many walls and not enough bridges.
A shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.
Four-fifths of all our troubles would disappear, if we would only sit down and keep still.
The only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing.
The wise speak only of what they know.
Responsibilities gravitate to the person who can shoulder them; power to the man who knows how.
Criticism is prejudice made plausible.
Men want a woman whom they can turn on and off like a light switch.
Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap on-a-rope.
The heart has its reasons, of which the mind knows nothing.
Boredom is a vital problem for the moralist, since at least half the sins of mankind are caused by the fear of it.
Of all the varieties of virtues, liberalism is the most beloved.
In every man's heart there is a secret nerve that answers to the vibrations of beauty.
Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire called conscience.
The United States stands at the pinnacle of world power. This is a solemn moment for the American democracy. For with primacy in power is joined an awe-inspiring accountability for the future.
There is more hunger in the world for love and appreciation than for bread.
The aim of good prose words is to mean what they say. The aim of good poetical words is to mean what they do not say.
Whenever you find a man who says he doesn't believe in a real Right and Wrong, you will find the same man going back on this a moment later.
It is noble to be good; it is still nobler to teach others to be good - and less trouble.
Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others.
I believe that unarmed truth and unconditional love will have the final word in reality. This is why right, temporarily defeated, is stronger than evil triumphant.
The advice of their elders to young men is very apt to be as unreal as a list of the hundred best books.
Eternity's a terrible thought. I mean, where's it all going to end?
The point of philosophy is to start with something so simple as not to seem worth stating, and to end with something so paradoxical that no one will believe it.
Happiness is the full use of your powers along lines of excellence.
Do not needlessly endanger your lives until I give you the signal.
A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.
Information is the oxygen of the modern age. It seeps through the walls topped by barbed wire, it wafts across the electrified borders.
To grasp the full significance of life is the actor's duty, to interpret it is his problem and to express it his dedication.
Ever notice that 'what the hell' is always the right decision?
Thus far, the reputed idiot Bush has graduated from Yale and Harvard, made a stack of cash in the oil industry, become the first consecutive-term governor of Texas, defeated a dual-term VP for the presidency, and led his party to [November 5th's] extraordinary triumphs. Let his opponents keep calling him stupid; if they do, within five years Bush will be King of England, the Pope, and world Formula One motor racing champion.
I had a dream the other night. I dreamed that Jimmy Carter came to me and asked why I wanted his job. I told him I didn't want his job. I want to be President.
Weaseling out of things is important to learn. It's what separates us from the animals... except the weasel.
The opposite of talking isn't listening. The opposite of talking is waiting.
People who are not in love fail to understand how an intelligent man can suffer because of a very ordinary woman. This is like being surprised that anyone should be stricken with cholera because of a creature so insignificant as the comma bacillus.
Just as war is freedom's cost, disagreement is freedom's privilege.
The value of an idea lies in the using of it.
Moral courage is the most valuable and usually the most absent characteristic in men.
Some men see things as they are and say why - I dream things that never were and say why not.
Imagination will often carry us to worlds that never were. But without it, we go nowhere.
Dancing is a perpendicular expression of a horizontal desire.
May God have mercy upon my enemies, because I won't.
Ernest Hemingway once wrote, 'The world is a fine place and worth fighting for.' I agree with the second part.
Words which do not give the light of Christ increase the darkness.
A man will be imprisoned in a room with a door that's unlocked and opens inwards; as long as it does not occur to him to pull rather than push.
Pure love and suspicion cannot dwell together: at the door where the latter enters, the former makes its exit.
Silence is one of the hardest arguments to refute.
Hope is itself a species of happiness, and, perhaps, the chief happiness which this world affords: but, like all other pleasures immoderately enjoyed, the excesses of hope must be expiated by pain; and expectations improperly indulged must end in disappointment.
I am not judged by the number of times I fail, but by the number of times I succeed; and the number of times I succeed is in direct proportion to the number of times I can fail and keep on trying.
I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.
The best thinking has been done in solitude. The worst has been done in turmoil.
A man who has never gone to school may steal from a freight car; but if he has a university education he may steal the whole railroad.
Why has government been instituted at all? Because the passions of men will not conform to the dictates of reason and justice, without constraint.
That the innocent, though they may have some connexion or dependency upon the guilty (which, perhaps, they themselves cannot help), should not, upon that account, suffer or be punished for the guilty, is one of the plainest and most obvious rules of justice.
Lies are usually caused by an undue fear of men.
After all, it is style alone by which posterity will judge of a great work, for an author can have nothing truly his own but his style.
Laws are partly formed for the sake of good men, in order to instruct them how they may live on friendly terms with one another, and partly for the sake of those who refuse to be instructed, whose spirit cannot be subdued, or softened, or hindered from plunging into evil.
I have learned, that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.
Your faith is what you believe, not what you know.
I perceived that to express those impressions, to write that essential book, which is the only true one, a great writer does not, in the current meaning of the word, invent it, but, since it exists already in each one of us, interprets it. The duty and the task of a writer are those of an interpreter.
Love is an ideal thing, marriage a real thing; a confusion of the real with the ideal never goes unpunished.
There are no seeing eye cats, of course, because the sole function of cats, in the Great Chain of Life, is to cause harm to human beings.
He that would live in peace and at ease must not speak all he knows or all he sees.
The recipe for perpetual ignorance is: be satisfied with your opinions and content with your knowledge.
The only man I know who behaves sensibly is my tailor; he takes my measurements anew each time he sees me. The rest go on with their old measurements and expect me to fit them.
Love is like war: easy to begin but very hard to stop.
Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most of them pick themselves up and hurry off as if nothing happened.
Government, even in its best state, is but a necessary evil; in its worst state, an intolerable one.
I get to go to lots of overseas places, like Canada.
Think, every day, something no one else is thinking.
Daring ideas are like chessmen moved forward; they may be beaten but they may start a winning game.
There is no cosmetic for beauty like happiness.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
In every man's heart there is a secret nerve that answers to the vibrations of beauty.
The World is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.
The world is in a constant conspiracy against the brave. It’s the age-old struggle—the roar of the crowd on one side and the voice of your conscience on the other.
The appropriate age for marriage is around eighteen for girls and thirty-seven for men.
Congress, after years of stalling, finally got around to clearing the way for informal discussions that might lead to possible formal talks that could potentially produce some kind of tentative agreements...
To be trusted is a greater complement than to be loved.
Most writers regard truth as their most valuable possession, and therefore are most economical in its use.
Humor is the only test of gravity, and gravity of humor; for a subject which will not bear raillery is suspicious, and a jest which will not bear serious examination is false wit.
The difference between ordinary and extraordinary is that little extra.
Life's battles don't always go to the stronger or faster man. But sooner or later the man who wins, is the man who thinks he can.
I have always thought the actions of men the best interpreters of their thoughts.
If the other person injures you, you may forget the injury; but if you injure him, you will always remember.
A photograph is usually looked at - seldom looked into.
Our hope of immortality does not come from any religions, but nearly all religions come from that hope.
There are people who put their dreams in a little box and say, Yes, I've got dreams, of course I've got dreams. Then they put the box away and bring it out once in awhile to look in it, and yep, they're still there.
You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.
Paley's argument is made with passionate sincerity and is informed by the best biological scholarship of his day, but it is wrong, gloriously and utterly wrong.
Life should begin with age and its privileges and accumulations, and end with youth and its capacity to splendidly enjoy such advantages.
It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own self-interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own neccessities but of their advantages.
If music be the food of love, play on.
The louder he talked of his honor, the faster we counted our spoons.
The permanent temptation of life is to confuse dreams with reality. The permanent defeat of life comes when dreams are surrendered to reality.
In the very books in which philosophers bid us scorn fame, they inscribe their names.
If the other person injures you, you may forget the injury; but if you injure him, you will always remember.
Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one.
My therapist told me the way to achieve true inner peace is to finish what I start. So far today, I have finished 2 bags of M&M's and a chocolate cake. I feel better already.
Love is a gross exaggeration of the difference between one person and everybody else.
Bad men are full of repentance.
A man has one hundred dollars and you leave him with two dollars, that's subtraction.
What do you know and how do you know it?
To me there has never been a higher source of earthly honor or distinction than that connected with advances in science.
If you were to open up a baby's head -- and I am not for a moment suggesting that you should -- you would find nothing but an enormous drool gland.
Let us not forget that the cultivation of the earth is the most important labor of man. When tillage begins, other arts will follow. The farmers, therefore, are the founders of civilization.
Fallacies do not cease to be fallacies because they become fashions.
Christmas is a time when you get homesick, even when you're home.
If I cannot horrify, I'll go for the gross-out. I'm not proud.
Since love grows within you, so beauty grows. For love is the beauty of the soul.
The proper rewards are not simply tacked on to the activity for which they are given, but are the activity itself in consummation.
Just as your hand, held before the eye, can hide the tallest mountain, so this small earthly life keeps us from seeing the vast radiance that fills the core of the universe.
There are two kinds of failures: those who thought and never did, and those who did and never thought.
A man who desires to get married should know either everything or nothing.
Wisdom has its root in goodness, not goodness its root in wisdom.
A lot of places can be the wrong place at the wrong time.
I've occasionally heard that I was kicked out of Harvard for being a Communist, for dealing drugs, for corrupting minors, or for diverse other infractions of local decorum. Unfortunately, none of these rumors are true. The one I've heard more often is that I am dead. That one I encouraged, hoping it would cut down on the junk mail. It didn't.
One should never trust a woman who tells her real age. If she tells that, she'll tell anything.
What the country needs is dirtier fingernails and cleaner minds.
I am a thing that thinks, that is to say, a thing that doubts, affrims, denies, understands a few things, is ignorant of many things, wills, refrains from willing, and also imagines and senses.
My political ambitions have nothing to do with vanity or the desire for power. I want to help people. I owe them something after all they've done for me.
Men marry to make an end; women to make a beginning.
'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.
All art is quite useless.
Wise men talk because they have something to say; fools, because they have to say something.
The days you work are the best days.
Alexander, Caesar, Charlemagne, and myself founded empires; but what foundation did we rest the creations of our genius? Upon force. Jesus Christ founded an empire upon love; and at this hour millions of men would die for Him.
No foreign policy - no matter how ingenious - has any chance of success if it is born in the minds of a few and carried in the hearts of none.
A man who never made a mistake never made anything.
Even the poor should give something to charity.
Little else is requisite to carry a state to the highest degree of opulence from the lowest barbarism but peace, easy taxes, and a tolerable administration of justice: all the rest being brought about by the natural course of things.
You cannot go on 'explaining away' for ever: you will find that you have explained explanation itself away. You cannot go on 'seeing through' things for ever. The whole point of seeing through something is to see something through it.
One thing only I know, and that is that I know nothing.
An unjust peace is better than a just war.
The true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him, but because he loves what is behind him.
There's a difference between a philosophy and a bumper sticker.
Don't measure yourself by what you have accomplished, but by what you should have accomplished with your ability.
Most football teams are temperamental. That's 90% temper and 10% mental.
Times are bad. Children no longer obey their parents, and everyone is writing a book.
If a man is called to be a streetsweeper, he should sweep streets even as Michelangelo painted, or Beethoven composed music, or Shakespeare wrote poetry. He should sweep streets so well that all the host of heaven and earth will pause to say, here lived a great streetsweeper who did his job well.
The presidency is now a cross between a popularity contest and a high school debate, with an encyclopedia of cliches the first prize.
There are only two places in the league--first place and no place.
The very idea of freedom presupposes some objective moral law which overarches rulers and ruled alike. Subjectivism about values is eternally incompatible with democracy. We and our rulers are of one kind only so long as we are subject to one law. But if there is no Law of Nature, the ethos of any society is the creation of its rulers, educators and conditioners; and every creator stands above and outside his own creation.
Boy, those French, they have a different word for everything!
Experience has taught me that there is one chief reason why some people succeed and others fail. The difference is not one of knowing, but of doing. The successful man is not so superior in ability as in action. So far as success can be reduced to a formula, it consists of this: doing what you know you should do.
Anger as soon as fed is dead. 'Tis starving makes it fat.
When you work seven days a week, fourteen hours a day, you get lucky.
The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain, egotistic and self-complacent is erroneous; on the contrary it makes them, for the most part, humble, tolerant and kind.
Education is a method whereby one acquires a higher grade of prejudices.
I thought it completely absurd to mention my name in the same breath as the Presidency.
Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been.
And those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who could not hear the music.
The movie's director is the pilot. It's his vision. For an actor, the time to worry about flying is when you're on the ground. If you don't want to fly with the director, don't get on the plane.
A man, Sir, should keep his friendship in constant repair.
If these holy places, things, and days cease to remind us, if they obliterate our awareness that all ground is holy and every bush (could we but perceive it) a Burning Bush, then the hallows begin to do harm. Hence both the necessity, and the perennial danger, of 'religion.'
False words are not only evil in themselves, but they infect the soul with evil.
Reasoning is never, like poetry, judged from the outside at all.
It is necessary for the welfare of society that genius should be privileged to utter sedition, to blaspheme, to outrage good taste, to corrupt the youthful mind, and generally to scandalize one's uncles.
I know God will not give me anything I can't handle. I just wish that He didn't trust me so much.
Whenever science makes a discovery, the devil grabs it while the angels are debating the best way to use it.
If music be the food of love, play on.
But what minutes! Count them by sensation, and not by calendars, and each moment is a day.
It is well to remember that the entire universe, with one trifling exception, is composed of others.
American business long ago gave up on demanding that prospective employees be honest and hardworking. It has even stopped hoping for employees who are educated enough that they can tell the difference between the men's room and the women's room without having little pictures on the doors.
The unthankful heart... discovers no mercies; but let the thankful heart sweep through the day and, as the magnet finds the iron, so it will find, in every hour, some heavenly blessings!
Old people don't need companionship. They need to be isolated and studied so it can be determined what nutrients they have that might be extracted for our personal use.
Idealism is fine, but as it approaches reality, the costs become prohibitive.
Intense love does not measure, it just gives.
Part of every misery is, so to speak, the misery's shadow or reflection: the fact that you don't merely suffer but have to keep on thinking about the fact that you suffer. I not only live each endless day in grief, but live each day thinking about living each day in grief.
Never continue in a job you don't enjoy. If you're happy in what you're doing, you'll like yourself, you'll have inner peace. And if you have that, along with physical health, you will have had more success than you could possibly have imagined.
Boldness be my friend.
The people are their own liberators.
The only good thing about books is that they can be adapted into films.
Water, taken in moderation, cannot hurt anybody.
Men have always been afraid that women could get along without them.
Never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it.
A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.
I have been driven many times upon my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere else to go. My own wisdom, and that of all about me, seemed insufficient for the day.
Far and away the best prize that life offers is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.
It is not fair to ask of others what you are not willing to do yourself.
The path to greatness is along with others.
What a man's mind can create, man's character can control.
What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly.
To dare to live alone is the rarest courage; since there are many who had rather meet their bitterest enemy in the field, than their own hearts in their closet.
Loving people live in a loving world. Hostile people live in a hostile world.
In our civilization, and under our republican form of government, intelligence is so highly honored that it is rewarded by exemption from the cares of office.
The Psalmists in telling everyone to praise God are doing what all men do when they speak of what they care about.
The means of defense against foreign danger historically have become the instruments of tyranny at home.
The true meaning of life is to plant trees, whose shade you do not expect to sit.
It is a funny thing about life; if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.
The man who says he is willing to meet you halfway is usually a poor judge of distance.
I conquered my hostility by putting it away until the day I might need it.
Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.
Few women, I fear, have had such reason as I have to think the long sad years of youth were worth living for the sake of middle age.
While the romanticized ideal of universal public education resonates with the cognoscenti who oppose vouchers, poor urban families just want the best education for their children, who will certainly need it to function in our high-tech and advanced society.
Fortune has rarely condescended to be the companion of genius.
Advertising is the life of trade.
My mother never saw the irony in calling me a son-of-a-bitch.
Christmas is a time when you get homesick, even when you're home.
I'm astounded by people who want to 'know' the universe when it's hard enough to find your way around Chinatown.
God is a verb.
An intellectual is a person who has discovered something more interesting than sex.
Cleaning your house while your kids are still growing is like shoveling the walk before it stops snowing.
Drinking makes such fools of people, and people are such fools to begin with, that it's compounding a felony.
When men are full of envy they disparage everything, whether it be good or bad.
Few girls are as well shaped as a good horse.
History, in general, only informs us what bad government is.
We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next ten.
The health of a democratic society may be measured by the quality of functions performed by private citizens.
Why buy good luggage? You only use it when you travel.
To write a good love letter, you ought to begin without knowing what you mean to say and to finish without knowing what you have written.
Art calls for complete mastery of techniques, developed by reflection within the soul.
One of the few good things about modern times: If you die horribly on television, you will not have died in vain. You will have entertained us.
The battle, Sir, is not to the strong alone; it is to the vigilant, the active, the brave.
No man is so foolish but he may sometimes give another good counsel, and no man so wise that he may not easily err if he takes no other counsel than his own. He that is taught only by himself has a fool for a master.
Do the thing you fear to do and keep on doing it... that is the quickest and surest way ever yet discovered to conquer fear.
The good thing about being bisexual is that it doubles your chance of a date on a Saturday night.
A bad peace is even worse than war.
He that is of the opinion money will do everything may well be suspected of doing everything for money.
It is better to be quotable than to be honest.
I would not join any club that would have someone like me for a member.
Whoever is happy will make others happy, too.
Illness is the doctor to whom we pay most heed; to kindness, to knowledge, we make promise only; pain we obey.
Every day, man is making bigger and better fool-proof things, and every day, nature is making bigger and better fools. So far, I think nature is winning.
My toughest fight was with my first wife.
It was the experience of mystery -- even if mixed with fear -- that engendered religion.
America did not invent human rights. In a very real sense...human rights invented America.
The government of the United States is a device for maintaining in perpetuity the rights of the people, with the ultimate extinction of all privileged classes.
The American people are slow to wrath, but when their wrath is once kindled it burns like a consuming flame.
In some versions of my original contest column I had proposed, in a lighthearted manner, that we reduce the deficit by 'selling unnecessary states such as Oklahoma to the Japanese.' This caused a number of Oklahomans to send in letters containing many correctly spelled words and making the central lighthearted point that I am a jerk. They also sent me official literature stating that Oklahoma has enormous quantities of culture in the form of ballet, Oral Roberts, etc., and that the Official State Reptile -- I am not making this up -- is something called the 'Mountain Boomer.' So I apologize to Oklahoma, and as a token of my sincerity I'm willing to sell my state, Florida, to the Japanese, assuming nobody objects to the fact that Japan would suddenly become the most heavily armed nation on Earth.
Like many intellectuals, he was incapable of saying a simple thing in a simple way.
All generalizations are dangerous, even this one.
You gain strength, experience and confidence by every experience where you really stop to look fear in the face. You must do the thing you cannot do.
No man should have a secret from his wife; she invariably finds out.
Deliberation and debate is the way you stir the soul of our democracy.
It ain't braggin' if you can back it up.
When we are debating an issue, loyalty means giving me your honest opinion, whether you think I'll like it or not. Disagreement, at this stage, stimulates me. But once a decision has been made, the debate ends. From that point on, loyalty means executing the decision as if it were your own.
Writing, at its best, is a lonely life. Organizations for writers palliate the writer's loneliness, but I doubt if they improve his writing. He grows in public stature as he sheds his loneliness and often his work deteriorates. For he does his work alone and if he is a good enough writer he must face eternity, or the lack of it, each day.
No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear. I am not afraid, but the sensation is like being afraid. The same fluttering in the stomach, the same restlessness, the yawning. I keep on swallowing.
I sit here all day trying to persuade people to do the things they ought to have the sense to do without my persuading them. That's all the powers of the President amount to.
Great things are not done by impulse, but by a series of small things brought together.
Do the thing you fear to do and keep on doing it... that is the quickest and surest way ever yet discovered to conquer fear.
Do not fear to be eccentric in opinion, for every opinion now accepted was once eccentric.
Your children need your presence more than your presents.
Ability will never catch up with the demand for it.
For a time, at least, I was the most famous person in the entire world.
Cliches are made because they're true.
There comes a time when deceit and defiance must be seen for what they are. At that point, a gathering danger must be directly confronted. At that point, we must show that beyond our resolutions is actual resolve.
The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it.
All our dreams can come true --if we have the courage to pursue them.
Let me tell you I am better acquainted with you for a long absence, as men are with themselves for a long affliction: absence does but hold off a friend, to make one see him the truer.
God grants liberty only to those who love it, and are always ready to guard and defend it.
If investments are keeping you awake at night, sell down to the sleeping point.
You know what the fellow said: In Italy for thirty years under the Borgias they had warfare, terror, murder, and bloodshed, but they produced Michaelangelo, Leonardo Da Vinci, and the Renaissance. In Switzerland, they had brotherly love--they had five hundred years of democracy and peace, and what did they produce? The cuckoo clock.
One swallow does not make a summer.
The art of acceptance is the art of making someone who has done you a small favor wish that he might have done you a greater one.
A woman is like a tea bag. You never know how strong she is until she gets into hot water.
I don't believe in quotas. America was founded on a philosophy of individual rights, not group rights.
Now he has departed from this strange world a little ahead of me. That means nothing. People like us, who believe in physics, know that the distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion.
There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written.
A facility for quotation covers the absence of original thought.
The measure of your life will not be in what you accumulate, but in what you give away.
We have to do more than just elect a new President if we truly want to change this country.
Nothing is wrong with Southern California that a rise in the ocean level wouldn't cure.
It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own self-interest. We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own neccessities but of their advantages.
